Terms:
 (NDC):normalized device coordinates:Normalized Device Coordinates (NDC) are a coordinate system used in computer graphics to describe positions on a virtual display device. In this system, the coordinates are normalized to a range from 0 to 1, where the lower-left corner corresponds to (0,0) and the upper-right corner corresponds to (1,1)

Why NDC is Important:
    Consistency Across Devices: NDC ensures that graphical objects are displayed consistently across different devices, regardless of their resolution or size1.
    Simplified Calculations: By normalizing coordinates, many geometric and projection calculations become simpler and more efficient2.
    Rendering Optimization: Using NDC helps optimize the rendering process by reducing the complexity of transforming coordinates from model space to screen space1.
    Coordinate Transformation: NDC is a crucial step in the graphics pipeline, transforming coordinates from model space, world space, view space, and clip space before finally converting them to device coordinates for display2.

How NDC Fits in the Graphics Pipeline:
    Model Space: Coordinates relative to the object’s local origin.(x model matrix)
    World Space: Coordinates relative to a global origin in the scene.(x view matrix)
    View Space: Coordinates as seen from the camera’s perspective.(x projection matrix)
    Clip Space: Coordinates after applying projection transformations.

    NDC: Normalized coordinates in the range [0,1].
    Device Coordinates: Final coordinates mapped to the actual screen pixels2.
    NDC plays a vital role in ensuring that objects are rendered correctly and consistently, making it an essential concept in computer graphics.

Types of Projection Transformations:
    Orthographic Projection:
        Characteristics: Parallel lines remain parallel after projection. There is no perspective distortion.
        Use Cases: Commonly used in engineering and architectural drawings where accurate measurements are crucial.
        Orthographic Matrix: This type of projection maintains the relative dimensions of objects, making it ideal for technical and engineering drawings where accurate measurements are crucial.
        ->glm::ortho(left, right, bottom, top, near, far);
    Perspective Projection:
        Characteristics: Parallel lines converge at a vanishing point, creating a sense of depth and realism.
        Use Cases: Widely used in video games, simulations, and any application requiring a realistic 3D appearance.
    A perspective matrix: also known as a perspective projection matrix, is a 4x4 matrix used in computer graphics to perform perspective projection. This transformation converts 3D coordinates into 2D coordinates, creating the illusion of depth and distance on a flat screen.
        ->glm::perspective(glm::radians(fov), aspect, near, far);

OpenGL is a right-handed system.


 Z-buffer, also known as a depth buffer: allows OpenGL to decide when to draw over a pixel and when not to